=pod

=head1 NAME

B<advent350> - I<The Colossal Cave Adventure>, 350 point version

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<advent350> [I<gamefile>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<The Colossal Cave Adventure> is a classic of computer gaming and the
progenitor of the text adventure and interactive fiction genres.  In it, you
explore Colossal Cave, finding treasures, solving fiendish puzzles, and trying
not to get killed by those dwarves.

Game commands consist of one or two words and are (mostly) self-evident, such
as "C<take lamp>" or "C<north>."  The commands are case-insensitive, and only
the first five letters of the first two words on each input line are taken into
consideration by the parser.

This port of the original 350-point version of I<Adventure> is intended to be
as true to the original as is sane; the biggest differences are that game data
is no longer saved by suspending the program and saving its core image, and, of
course, that not all of the letters are upper-case.  If so configured at
compile time, the game will even include the "magic" features of the original
(i.e., forced delays before restarting a saved game and "prime time" hours
during which the game cannot be normally played) which are often omitted from
ports, due partially to being unnecessary & annoying on modern systems.

=head1 SAVING AND RESTORING

Games can be saved & restored with the commands C<save> (or C<pause> or
C<suspend>) and C<restore> (or C<load> or C<restart> or C<resume>).  These
commands take the name of the save file as an optional argument; if it is not
given, the game is written to or read from F<$HOME/.adventure>.  A saved game
may also be restored directly on startup by supplying the filename on the
command line.

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<$HOME/.adventure>

Games are saved to and read from this file by default when no filename is given
to the C<save> or C<restore> command.

=item F</usr/games/lib/advmagic>

This is the default path which the current "magic" settings are read from and
written to.  It is only used if ADVMAGIC was defined at compile time.

=back

=head1 BUGS, RESTRICTIONS, AND CAVEATS

I suspect that there may still be some lingering typos in the code or game
text somewhere.  Let me know if you find any.

The save files and magic file are completely vulnerable to editing by malicious
players -- but you'd have to be pretty pathetic to want to edit them
dishonestly in the first place.

Cave "prime time" hours and game restoration delays can be circumvented by
changing the user's time zone (or just changing the system time).

If the user enters a line MAX_INPUT_LENGTH (default 80) or more characters
long, the extra characters will be considered a separate line.

File names supplied to the C<save> and C<restore> commands cannot contain
spaces.

If ADVMAGIC was defined at compile time, the original messages about saving
your core image are still printed out when saving a game and after changing the
"magic" values, despite the fact that these messages are now irrelevant and
misleading.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The original PDP-10 Fortran version of I<Adventure> can be downloaded from the
Interactive Fiction Archive at
L<http://www.ifarchive.org/if-archive/games/source/advent-original.tar.gz>.

The source repository for this port of I<Adventure> can be found at
L<http://github.com/jwodder/advent350>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This port of I<Adventure> is in the public domain.  Feel free to do whatever
the Tartarus you want with it.

=head1 HISTORY

The history of I<Adventure> is too long to be properly summarized here while
still conveying why it is such a legendary game.  Some records of its history
include:

=over

=item

L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colossal_Cave_Adventure>

=item

L<http://www.rickadams.org/adventure/a_history.html>

=item

L<http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/001/2/000009.html>

=back

This particular version was ported to C from Willie Crowther & Don Woods's
original 350-point version in Fortran.  The port was done in 2009 by John T.
Wodder II <jwodder@sdf.lonestar.org> after he became dissatisfied with the C
translations available at the time.

=cut
